# i18n

## Context

Internationalization on Force was introduced as a hackathon project ([PR](https://github.com/artsy/force/pull/9797)).

We are using the [react-i18next](https://react.i18next.com/) internationalization framework for this.

The goal of these change is separating the text content from the codebase, so copy updates can handled in a smoother process.

See [this
presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1VT44uoGAaHX0EcDaYwGHiYVjkYR8VU-fAkOXK6rSHto/edit#slide=id.gd1b1ff661f_0_12) about the benefits we expect to achieve.

## How to

Locales are defined on [src/System/i18n/locales](https://github.com/artsy/force/tree/main/src/System/i18n/locales). Currently, the only language supported is en-US.

### Importing react-i18next

1. Import the library:

```jsx
import { useTranslation } from "react-i18next"
```

2. Use the `useTranslation` hook on functional components:

```jsx
const { t } = useTranslation()
```

### Adding a static string

1. Add the string to [translation.json](https://github.com/artsy/force/blob/main/src/System/i18n/locales/en-US/translation.json) following the Naming conventions.
2. Use it in any component by calling `` {t`<path-for-the-key>`} `` (example: `` {t`navbar.shows`} ``)

### Adding a dynamic string

You can use [interpolation](https://www.i18next.com/translation-function/interpolation) in case you need to pass dynamic values

1. Add a string to translation.json defining the keys (example: `"greetings": "hello {{name}}"`)
2. When calling it in a component, pass the dynamic values as keys (example: `{t('hello', { name: 'John')}`)

### Working with class components

In some scenarios, we'll need to pass the `t` function as an argument to another function.
We can do this by using the [ClassI18n](https://github.com/artsy/force/blob/main/src/System/i18n/ClassI18n.tsx) class.
See an example of usage on the [SearchBar](https://github.com/artsy/force/blob/main/src/Components/Search/SearchBar.tsx). As the
`Form` component is wrapped inside `ClassI18n` , it is capable of passing the `t` function as an argument to the `renderAutosuggestComponent` function.

### Naming conventions for translations keys

We always use:

- The name of the component followed by the key definition in dot notation;
- camelCase;
- Short definitions: maximum length of 5 words;

For translations used in several spots, we might want to create a `shared` namespace.

## Finding a component that contains a given string

If you are trying to locate a component based on its user-facing strings,
you can use the `yarn translations` script to output strings and their matching
`t(…)` translation keys:

```sh
yarn translations | grep "Delete Widget?"
```

This will output something like this:

<pre>
…
<span style="color:blue">widgetApp.deleteModal.deleteButton</span> <span style="color: #ccc">|</span> <strong>Delete Widget?</strong>
…
</pre>

You can than search the codebase for `widgetApp.deleteModal.deleteButton` to
locate the component in question.

## Further improvements

### Serve static assets on the server-side

Our translations files are separated according to locales. If at some point, we want to include new
locales, we don't want all files associated to locales to be loaded when accessing Artsy. Ideally,
we want to serve those assets on the server-side (possibly uploading it to AWS) and consume only the
ones that make sense given the context of the current request.

### Set up a third-party service for translations management

We would like our translations to be synced with a third-party tool, enabling translations
management to happen through a friendly interface, making the process easier for UX writers,
designers and PMs.

See [this comparison
table](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1NtcqofHLG17TPgYQ2G5C1X5aFHa95qAVTyjqa78joJo/edit#gid=0)
regarding the main alternatives considered so far.

### Use `en` locale as "dev english"

Note: this was started and then removed to keep things clear.

For the initial setup, we are supporting translations on `en-US` locale. Ideally, we would like to
use `en` locale as development locale, one that we can use to set the root version of every string,
but the website will actually use the `en-US` version, the one to be maintained by different teams
at Artsy. Using a third-party service, the suggested flow would be:

1. Engineers open a PR to main containing the keys in the root `locale` assigning to it a default
   value
2. Once the PR is merged, it synchronizes with the third-party service
3. `en-US` is updated there and a PR is automatically opened to the repository on GitHub
4. The PR is merged by an Engineer so the project will include the updated locales
