src/lib/passport-local-with-otp/README.md, before:

# passport-local-with-otp

[Passport] strategy for authenticating with a username,
password and OTP.

This module lets you authenticate using a username, password and time-based
one-time password (OTP) in your Node.js applications.

This is a fork of https://github.com/jaredhanson/passport-local, adapted for the
use case of submitting username, password and otp in unison to an upstream
server for authentication and second-factor verification in a single request.

## Usage

#### Configure Strategy

The local-with-otp authentication strategy authenticates users using a username
password, and otp. The strategy requires a `verify` callback, which accepts
these credentials and calls `done` providing a user.

```js
passport.use(
  new LocalWithOtpStrategy(function (username, password, otp, done) {
    try {
      const user = authenticateWithUpstreamService(username, password, otp)
      return done(null, user)
    } catch (error) {
      return done(err)
    }
  })
)
```

##### Available Options

This strategy takes an optional options hash before the function, e.g. `new LocalWithOtpStrategy({/* options */, callback})`.

The available options are:

- `usernameField` - Optional, defaults to 'username'
- `passwordField` - Optional, defaults to 'password'
- `otpField` - Optional, defaults to 'otp'

Both fields define the name of the properties in the POST body that are sent to the server.

#### Parameters

By default, `**Local**WithOtpStrategy` expects to find credentials in parameters
named username, password and otp. If your site prefers to name these fields
differently, options are available to change the defaults.

    passport.use(new LocalWithOtpStrategy({
        usernameField: '***',
        passwordField: '***',
        otpField: 'otp_attempt',
        session: false
      },
      function(username, password, done) {
        // ...
      }
    ));

When session support is not necessary, it can be safely disabled by
setting the `session` option to false.

The verify callback can be supplied with the `request` object by setting
the `passReqToCallback` option to true, and changing callback arguments
accordingly.

    passport.use(new LocalWithOtpStrategy({
        usernameField: '***',
        passwordField: '***',
        otpField: 'otp_attempt',
        passReqToCallback: true,
        session: false
      },
      function(req, username, password, done) {
        // request object is now first argument
        // ...
      }
    ));

#### Authenticate Requests

Use `passport.authenticate()`, specifying the `'local-with-otp'` strategy, to
authenticate requests.

For example, as route middleware in an [Express](http://expressjs.com/)
application:

```js
app.post(
  "/login",
  passport.authenticate("local", { failureRedirect: "/login" }),
  function (req, res) {
    res.redirect("/")
  }
)
```

## Examples

Developers using the popular [Express](http://expressjs.com/) web framework can
refer to an [example](https://github.com/passport/express-4.x-local-example)
as a starting point for their own web applications.

## License

[The MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Copyright (c) 2011-2015 Jared Hanson <[http://jaredhanson.net/](http://jaredhanson.net/)>

[passport]: http://passportjs.org/
[circleci]: https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/artsy/passport-local-with-otp
[anandaroop]: https://github.com/anandaroop
[npm_package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@artsy/passport-local-with-otp
[auto_orb]: https://github.com/artsy/orbs/tree/main/src/auto

Commit message:

docs: add note about this lib's history

src/lib/passport-local-with-otp/README.md, after:

# passport-local-with-otp

> **Note**: This library was created as a standalone repo (https://github.com/artsy/passport-local-with-otp) in Q2 2020 as part of the Trust team's effort to enable 2FA on the platform.
>
> In Q1 2022 the repo was retired and the code moved here into Force (its only consumer), as part of an effort to consolidate auth code.

[Passport] strategy for authenticating with a username,
password and OTP.

This module lets you authenticate using a username, password and time-based
one-time password (OTP) in your Node.js applications.

This is a fork of https://github.com/jaredhanson/passport-local, adapted for the
use case of submitting username, password and otp in unison to an upstream
server for authentication and second-factor verification in a single request.

## Usage

#### Configure Strategy

The local-with-otp authentication strategy authenticates users using a username
password, and otp. The strategy requires a `verify` callback, which accepts
these credentials and calls `done` providing a user.

```js
passport.use(
  new LocalWithOtpStrategy(function (username, password, otp, done) {
    try {
      const user = authenticateWithUpstreamService(username, password, otp)
      return done(null, user)
    } catch (error) {
      return done(err)
    }
  })
)
```

##### Available Options

This strategy takes an optional options hash before the function, e.g. `new LocalWithOtpStrategy({/* options */, callback})`.

The available options are:

- `usernameField` - Optional, defaults to 'username'
- `passwordField` - Optional, defaults to 'password'
- `otpField` - Optional, defaults to 'otp'

Both fields define the name of the properties in the POST body that are sent to the server.

#### Parameters

By default, `**Local**WithOtpStrategy` expects to find credentials in parameters
named username, password and otp. If your site prefers to name these fields
differently, options are available to change the defaults.

    passport.use(new LocalWithOtpStrategy({
        usernameField: '***',
        passwordField: '***',
        otpField: 'otp_attempt',
        session: false
      },
      function(username, password, done) {
        // ...
      }
    ));

When session support is not necessary, it can be safely disabled by
setting the `session` option to false.

The verify callback can be supplied with the `request` object by setting
the `passReqToCallback` option to true, and changing callback arguments
accordingly.

    passport.use(new LocalWithOtpStrategy({
        usernameField: '***',
        passwordField: '***',
        otpField: 'otp_attempt',
        passReqToCallback: true,
        session: false
      },
      function(req, username, password, done) {
        // request object is now first argument
        // ...
      }
    ));

#### Authenticate Requests

Use `passport.authenticate()`, specifying the `'local-with-otp'` strategy, to
authenticate requests.

For example, as route middleware in an [Express](http://expressjs.com/)
application:

```js
app.post(
  "/login",
  passport.authenticate("local", { failureRedirect: "/login" }),
  function (req, res) {
    res.redirect("/")
  }
)
```

## Examples

Developers using the popular [Express](http://expressjs.com/) web framework can
refer to an [example](https://github.com/passport/express-4.x-local-example)
as a starting point for their own web applications.

## License

[The MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Copyright (c) 2011-2015 Jared Hanson <[http://jaredhanson.net/](http://jaredhanson.net/)>

[passport]: http://passportjs.org/
[circleci]: https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/artsy/passport-local-with-otp
[anandaroop]: https://github.com/anandaroop
[npm_package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@artsy/passport-local-with-otp
[auto_orb]: https://github.com/artsy/orbs/tree/main/src/auto
